NARRATOR After defeating Valerie
at the Laverre City Gym
with the help of Fletchinder
and Hawlucha
Ash earned the Fairy Badge.
Now our hero only needs
two more Kalos Gym badges
to enter the Kalos League!
And after observing
Ash's hard‐fought battle
with all his creative
strategies in full view
Sawyer seems to be
highly motivated!
♪ You're just a kid on a quest
to be the best of the best ♪
♪ Someday you're destined
for power and glory ♪
♪ You know
you're up to the test ♪
♪ There's only one way
to tell this story ♪
♪ Be a hero be a hero ♪
♪ All the power
is at your command ♪
♪ Face your fears
and show you're a hero ♪
♪ The future of the world
is in your hand ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"Rivals, today and tomorrow!"
[Sawyer thinking] So that's what
it takes to win a battle.
Being able to think
on your feet!
Alright! And then,
one of these days, I'll..
[grunts]
Are you okay?
[groans]
Yeah, I'm fine.
I guess I wasn't looking.
You really need to keep your
eyes on where you're going.
Right, I'll be more careful.
‐ Oh, lookie what I found!
‐ What? Tell us!
Or perhaps we'd better take it
to Officer Jenny!
Yeah, like that's gonna happen.
So, taking a peek is what's
going to happen instead.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
MEOWTH Maybe it's a step‐by‐step
map of the road to riches.
‐ Eh?
‐ Oh, my, so handsome!
Wow! It's a picture
of none other than Steven Stone!
‐ Hm?
‐ 'Steven Stone? No way.'
Right! He's the strongest
Trainer in Hoenn.
He's the Champion.
‐ The Champion?
Ta‐da! They're my homemade
sweet treats and Poké Puffs!
After a battle, it's teatime.
Looks delish!
[EATING]
Yummy! Wow!
Thank you! Eat all you want.
Hey, look at them go!
[AGREEMENT]
Yum, there's nothing
like a great dessert.
All I have to do
is eat enough of this
and in no time I'll become
a powerful Trainer
just like Ash.
[SURPRISED]
Yeah. You were amazing.
It didn't matter
what kind of situation came up.
It had to be victory
and nothing else.
Now I know what to do
to win a Gym badge!
I learned so much
from watching you!
And I wrote it all down
so I wouldn't forget a thing.
Wow, thanks a lot.
Actually, it's the Pokémon
who totally deserves
to get all the credit.
That means a badge is proof
that everyone
worked really hard.
You know, you're so right.
I'll make a note of it.
ASH 'You don't need a note
for that.'
[gasps]
What's wrong, Sawyer?
It‐it's gone.
‐ Uh, what's gone?
‐ What did you lose?
My battle notebook is gone.
[all gasping]
I wrote down everything
I've seen on my journey.
And it's in that notebook.
Maybe I lost it when I fell.
And here he is.
The Champion, Steven Stone!
Working with his partner,
Metagross
Steven's the strongest
of all Trainers
in the Hoenn region.
And as if that's not enough,
he's also heir
to the Devon Corporation,
Hoenn's largest company!
I like the sound of that.
A quiet little wedding
and I'll be all set.
So that means
Champion Butterfingers
dropped this by mistake.
But where? Where, where, where,
where, where, where?
Where is that charming Champion?
Finding this
was a stroke of luck.
We can learn every one
of the Champion's secrets
to raising
the strongest Pokémon ever!
No! Being an heir
is the most important thing.
If I can find the Champion
I can marry
into mounds of money.
Don't be a fool!
We don't need a stinking
marriage, dig?
Look.
We'll learn the Champion's
secret training techniques
and control
the whole world of Pokémon!
Yeah, and I hear that gig
pays really well.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Come on! So weird.
I'm sure I dropped it here.
‐ I don't see it anywhere.
‐ I'm sure we'll find it.
‐ Don't you think, Clemont?
‐ You're right.
I feel awful about this.
[COMFORTING]
Thanks a lot,
Treecko and Pikachu.
Hey, I know! Why don't we
split up and look for it?
Yeah. Good idea.
Then, we can meet up later
at the Pokémon Center.
Everyone? Help out!
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Right. You too!
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
‐ Any luck?
‐ Nothing.
‐ Yeah, same here.
‐ Not even a teensy trace.
[AGREEMENT]
Any luck, Sawyer?
It's no use.
I have to face facts.
My notebook's really gone.
[UNHAPPY]
Sawyer, you've had that notebook
ever since you became
a Trainer, right?
Is everything
you've ever learned in there?
Uh‐huh. All the important stuff
that's happened since Hoenn.
Everything that Treecko
and I've experienced together.
TAILLOW/TREECKO
[AGGRESSIVE]
I've been able
to look back at my notes
before all of my battles.
It's helped me a lot!
I've been through some tough
battles, but I always wrote
whatever happened
in my notebook.
I've got notes
of every experience!
There's even a photo in there.
And it's signed.
It's a picture of Steven Stone,
the Hoenn Champion.
Really? The Champion?
You actually met Steven Stone?
‐ Yeah!
‐ I'll tell you.
I respect Trainers and Pokémon
who give it their all.
'And that includes you.
You've got a bright future.'
You see, Steven's been spending
a lot of his time doing research
on Mega Stones, and he even
told me that Treecko is capable
of Mega Evolution. When he
becomes a Sceptile of course.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
So Sceptile can Mega Evolve!
PIKACHU
[SURPRISED]
It's a dream for Treecko and me.
Mega Evolution!
[AGREEMENT]
All the amazing stuff I learned
from Steven Stone
was in that notebook as well.
Well, if it's that important,
then we have to find it.
BONNIE Clemont, that's your cue
to jump into action
with a notebook
searching machine!
But there's not even
a trail to follow.
Maybe if we could get
the notebook's scent.
Of course!
I should've thought of that.
Hey, Slurpuff, come on out
and give us a hand!
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Wow, you've got a Slurpuff!
[EXCITED]
Licking faces is Slurpuff's way
of saying hello.
DEDENNE
[EXCITED]
Me, too! Will you please?
That's so cute.
Using Slurpuff
is a terrific idea.
Yeah, Slurpuff can pick up
the scent of my notebook
by getting a whiff of my scent.
Slurpuff's got a sense of smell
that's a hundred million times
more sensitive than a person's!
[EXCITED]
SLURPUFF
[AGREEMENT]
PIKACHU
[SURPRISED]
ASH
Go for it, and good luck!
JAMES
'Incredible information!'
Oh, be still my beating heart.
You're so lucky, your heart
should be dancing a jig!
WOBBUFFET
[AGREEMENT]
JAMES
'Egads, look!'
‐ Sceptile can Mega Evolve, too!
‐ Great! I'm listening.
The Champion's notebook
is good reading.
SLURPUFF
[EXCITED]
[all gasp]
[HAPPY]
‐ Come again?
‐ Who's this blob?
[EXERTION]
[Team Rocket gasping]
‐ Come back.
‐ That's our book, crook.
‐ Grab it!
‐ Hey!
[EXERTION]
SAWYER
Slurpuff!
SLURPUFF
[NERVOUS]
You found it, Slurpuff!
Thanks so much!
TREECKO
[AGREEMENT]
I'm so relieved!
Where did you find it?
SLURPUFF
[EXPLAINING]
TEAM ROCKET
'Twerps?'
It's Team Rocket!
You give me back
my key to the good life.
So you were the ones
who stole Sawyer's notebook!
‐ Hey, do you know them?
‐ Afraid so.
They're bad guys who steal
other people's Pokémon.
Hurry up! Give it back.
The Champion's notebook is ours!
‐ Champion?
‐ It isn't his!
This notebook belongs to me!
[snickering]
Don't act so Twerpish.
It's signed
by the Champion himself.
And you can be sure
the two of us
will live happily ever after.
This is an autographed photo
I got from Steven Stone.
‐ You got that dude's autograph?
‐ No joke?
Honestly?
No! The good life left!
All of that wisdom,
down the drain.
Next time, don't drop
something so confusing.
JAMES Keep your book.
We'll take your Pokémon!
JESSIE That's for all
our pain and suffering.
Pumpkaboo, ten‐hut!
Okay, Inkay!
It's Twerp time!
[APPEARING]
‐ Okay, Sawyer, let's go.
‐ Right.
[AGREEMENT]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Grovyle!
GROVYLE
[EXERTION]
Pumpkaboo, Shadow Ball!
[SHADOW BALL MOVE]
Inkay, time for Psybeam!
[PSYBEAM MOVE]
Alright, Pikachu, Thunderbolt!
[THUNDERBOLT MOVE]
Treecko, Bullet Seed!
[BULLET SEED MOVE]
Pikachu, Thunderbolt once more!
[THUNDERBOLT MOVE]
[screaming]
You know, I had a feeling
that notebook
was a bit gnarly the whole time.
Aw,the no good life!
That notebook would have looked
great on my coffee table.
WOBBUFFET
[AFFIRMATIVE]
TEAM ROCKET
We're blasting off again!
WOBBUFFET
[AFFIRMATIVE]
BONNIE
Bye! You should be used to that.
[AGREEMENT]
Nice going, Sawyer.
Thanks! To all of you.
Because of your help
my notebook is safe.
[AGREEMENT]
Bonsoir!
Welcome, my Kalos friends, who
loves their Pokémon so dearly.
Here are the details
for the next
Pokémon Showcase Rookie Class!
Here it comes.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
The site is Dendemille Town.
The home of lush, beautiful
mountains and quaint windmills.
Truly a Pokémon
farming paradise!
It's charming!
All performers watching this,
mark your calendars.
Choose your favorite Pokémon
and make your entry
as quick as you can.
The nearest Pokémon Center
is the place to go.
[AGREEMENT]
So, Dendemille Town.
'Wow. That's close
to Anistar City!'
[EXCITED]
Alright.
Let's register right away.
PANCHAM
[AGREEMENT]
ASH
'Good luck!'
It's time
for your second Showcase.
You'll win this time for sure.
[AGREEMENT]
Yes, I will! So, Ash,
where's your next Gym battle?
Well, you see
I haven't really decided yet.
'How about here?'
Ta‐da!
Anistar City!
Uh, Anistar City?
'It's a great place to visit.
It has this amazing sundial.'
And besides, Dendemille Town
is right on the way there.
Ah, that's it. Anistar City.
I'll get my seventh badge there!
[AGREEMENT]
Hey, Sawyer,
what are you going to do?
I think I'm going to head
for the Coumarine Gym.
That Gym's awesome.
Coumarine City's amazing,
as well.
They've even got a monorail.
If I remember,
the Gym Leader is Ramos.
Yeah, and he's strong.
Have fun, and good luck!
Thanks! I'll work hard.
But before that, I've got
a little favor to ask you.
[CURIOUS]
SAWYER The last time we battled,
we had to stop in the middle.
How'd you like to finish it up
before we head out?
So what are the rules?
'How about we each use
three Pokémon?'
You heard him, Pikachu.
Let's go!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
My first Pokémon will be Bagon.
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
I'll be the referee,
if you don't mind.
‐ Good luck, both of you.
‐ Have a great battle.
Ash versus Sawyer.
Battle, begin!
Use Quick Attack. Go!
[QUICK ATTACK MOVE]
Use Headbutt!
[HEADBUTT MOVE]
BAGON
[PAINED]
Wow. Pikachu's fast!
Now, counter with Dragon Breath!
[DRAGON BREATH MOVE]
Use Thunderbolt!
[THUNDERBOLT MOVE]
Alright, use Iron Tail!
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
[SCARED]
Iron Tail from up there?
Now, Dragon Claw, go!
[DRAGON CLAW MOVE]
[IMPACT]
BAGON
[PAINED]
[STUNNED]
[CONFIDENT]
Bagon is unable to battle.
‐ Pikachu's the winner!
‐ Wow. That was so fast!
And Pikachu looked
really strong.
Bagon, thanks a lot.
Now, you take a good rest.
Your Pikachu sure is tough, Ash.
Don't worry!
Your Bagon's gonna
keep on getting stronger.
‐ You'll see!
‐ Right!
Now, Slurpuff, you're next.
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Okay!
I'm going with Hawlucha!
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Electro Ball's perfect
for Flying types. Go!
[ELECTRO BALL MOVE]
Dodge it and use Karate Chop!
[EXERTION]
What?
[KARATE CHOP MOVE]
[ANGRY]
No, Slurpuff!
Okay, what's my next move?
Flying Press!
[FLYING PRESS MOVE]
[SCARED]
[STUNNED]
Ah..
Slurpuff is unable to battle.
Hawlucha's the winner!
Way to go, Hawlucha! Return!
I'm sorry.
See? I couldn't do a thing.
‐ 'Sawyer?'
‐ Huh?
When your Pokémon gets hit,
a Trainer's gotta
stay cool, no matter what.
Uh, right!
See, if a Trainer hesitates
then the Pokémon
will hesitate too.
'After all, Pokémon and Trainer
are battling together as one.'
Okay, I understand.
[thinking] During his Gym
battle, that's just what Ash
and his Pokémon were doing.
I'll have to put everything
I've ever jotted down
into this battle.
Ready to go, Sawyer?
Now, Frogadier, I choose you!
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
My third Pokémon's Treecko!
[APPEARING]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Don't forget
I've got the advantage
with this Type matchup.
We'll just see about that.
Frogadier, Aerial Ace!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
That's a Flying‐type move.
[IMPACT]
‐ That was super effective!
‐ Treecko, are you okay?
Treecko.
Alright, Bullet Seed!
[BULLET SEED MOVE]
‐ That's really effective, too!
‐ Keep it going, Treecko!
'Fast as you can!'
[BULLET SEED MOVE]
[SCARED]
But, why? I can't panic,
no matter what!
Agility, let's go!
[AGILITY MOVE]
Now, Water Pulse!
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
TREECKO
[SHOCKED]
[ANGRY]
Treecko! Can you still go on?
[EVOLVING]
SAWYER
Treecko!
‐ What's that?
‐ Could it be?
[EXCITED]
Uh..
‐ It evolved.
‐ I'll take a look.
POKEDEX
Grovyle. The Wood Gecko Pokémon,
and an evolved form of Treecko.
'Grovyle has powerful legs,
which allow it to move quickly'
'and jump with great power.'
[EXCITED]
ASH That just happened
because Grovyle
could sense your passion!
My passion, huh?
[chuckles]
Grovyle, you ready?
Let's win this!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Wow. Awesome.
You know Leaf Blade!
Now. Double Team!
[DOUBLE TEAM MOVE]
Grovyle! Leaf Blade!
[LEAF BLADE MOVE]
[EXERTION]
[CONFUSED]
Use Aerial Ace!
[PANICKED]
[AERIAL ACE MOVE]
GROVYLE
[PAINED]
Okay, use Leaf Blade!
[LEAF BLADE MOVE]
[EXERTION]
Now, use Cut!
[CUT MOVE]
[LEAF BLADE MOVE]
This has turned
into a great battle!
Yeah! Grovyle and I
are battling together as one!
Use Aerial Ace!
[AERIAL ACE MOVE]
Jump! Go!
GROVYLE
[EXERTION]
[SURPRISED]
‐ Now what?
‐ Grovyle can jump!
‐ So high!
‐ Grovyle, Bullet Seed!
[BULLET SEED MOVE]
Use Water Pulse!
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
[groans]
Now, Grovyle, use Leaf Blade!
[LEAF BLADE MOVE]
[gasping]
[SURPRISED]
Water Pulse, come on!
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
GROVYLE
[SHOCKED]
FROGADIER
[CONFIDENT]
[gasping]
Gro‐Grovyle?
[TIRED]
[STUNNED]
No, Grovyle!
CLEMONT 'Grovyle is unable to
battle. Frogadier's the winner!'
That was great, Frogadier.
You battled really well.
Awesome job!
[AGREEMENT]
Hey, Grovyle, are you okay?
[DAZED]
[ANGRY]
[EXCITED]
[DETERMINED]
Wow.
Both of you
are really pumped up!
CLEMONT 'I think they'll be
good rivals.'
Let's keep getting stronger,
Grovyle!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Sawyer, good luck
with your Gym battles.
Thanks. I'll be cheering for you
in your Pokémon Showcase!
Thanks so much,
and this time, I'll get
that Princess Key for sure.
Hey, Ash. Thanks so much
for everything you've done.
For battling me and for all
the stuff you've taught me.
No problem.
Good luck at the Gym.
[AGREEMENT]
Thanks a lot, Ash.
Same to you at the Anistar Gym.
Win your seventh badge!
ASH
'Right.'
NARRATOR Now that our heroes
have gotten to know
Sawyer, the young man
from Hoenn
they prepare to set off
on their journey
while Sawyer prepares
to set off on his.
And so, until Ash and Sawyer
meet again..
[Sawyer thinking] Well, Ash,
next time we battle,
things will be different.
I'm going to get stronger
and stronger
and then I'll be the winner.
NARRATOR
...the journey continues!
[theme music]